
The graduate has in-depth knowledge of IT models, methods and
tools, especially simulation tools for solving management decisionmaking problems.
P7S_WG, P7S_WK
K2_IZ_W02 The graduate has in-depth knowledge of methods and IT tools for the
preparation of data, from a variety of sources, necessary for business
decision-making.
P7S_WG, P7S_WK
K2_IZ_W03 The graduate has in-depth knowledge of the technology, key
functions and applications of business support IT solutions.
P7S_WG, P7S_WK
K2_IZ_W04 The graduate has in-depth knowledge of theoretical methods
(mathematical, econometric, statistical, forecasting) used to support
decision-making processes, including the explanation of complex
relationships between phenomena in these processes in the field of
management.
P7S_WG P7S_WG_INŻ
K2_IZ_W05 The graduate has in-depth knowledge of professional IT packages for
statistical and econometric modelling and analysis to support the
solution of decision-making problems in management processes.
P7S_WG P7S_WG_INŻ
K2_IZ_W06 The graduate has in-depth knowledge of inter-organisational relations
and the interaction of organisations with the environment in the
context of national, international and intercultural conditions. They
can explain and illustrate the impact of the interaction of the
environment on the organisation’s activities.
P7S_WK
K2_IZ_W07 The graduate has in-depth knowledge of the organisation and
functioning of a business in the fields of strategic management,
logistics, marketing, finance, business architecture and protection of
intellectual and industrial property. They know and understand the
main development trends in the discipline of management and quality
studies.
P7S_WG, P7S_WK
K2_IZ_W08 The graduate has in-depth knowledge of the technical means and IT
systems of communication in organisations (including their life-cycle
processes) and knows the characteristics of an efficient
communication process.
P7S_WG P7S_WG_INŻ
K2_IZ_W09 The graduate has in-depth knowledge of methods and techniques for
diagnosing and improving activities in specific functional areas of an
organisation and selected methods for studying the business
environment.
P7S_WG P7S_WG_INŻ
K2_IZ_W10 The graduate has in-depth knowledge of risk, its sources and the
necessity of its mitigation in the functioning of enterprises. They know
the principles of risk management and measurement, and methods of
its estimation and mitigation.
P7S_WG
K2_IZ_W11 The graduate has in-depth knowledge of the interactions taking place
in selected physical systems between their individual components
and the people (employees) functioning within them.
P7S_WK P7S_WG_INŻ
K2_IZ_W12 The graduate has in-depth knowledge of the social mechanisms of
decision-making and leadership in organisations.
P7S_WG
Learning outcomes 8 / 87
Code Description of the directional learning outcome
Characteristics for
qualifications at
level 6 or 7 of the
Polish
Qualifications
Framework
Characteristics for
qualifications at
level 6 or 7 of the
Polish
Qualifications
Framework,
enabling the
acquisition of
engineering
competences
K2_IZ_W13 The graduate knows and understands the norms and standards
(economic, legal, organisational, ethical, humanistic and other) that
condition the context in which the economy and organisations
function. They know and understand the fundamental dilemmas of
modern civilisation.
P7S_WK
K2_IZ_W14 The graduate has in-depth knowledge of the theories, methods and
instruments of economic and legal policy applied to the regulation of
the economy.
P7S_WG
K2_IZ_W15 The graduate has in-depth knowledge of project and portfolio
management at all stages of project implementation, in particular
they are familiar with agile methodologies and mathematical and IT
tools.
P7S_WG, P7S_WK P7S_WG_INŻ,
P7S_WK_INŻ
K2_IZ_W16 The graduate has in-depth knowledge of how teams are built and
function and the factors that influence their performance.
P7S_WG
K2_IZ_W17 The graduate knows and understands the principles of formation and
development of various forms of individual entrepreneurship.
P7S_WK P7S_WK_INŻ
Skills
K2_IZ_U01 The graduate is able to select IT methods and tools, in particular
simulation tools, for the construction of models of management
decision-making problems, and to perform experiments to evaluate
the effects of decision options, also taken for unpredictable
conditions.
P7S_UW P7S_UW_INŻ
K2_IZ_U02 The graduate is able, using IT tools, to search, combine, organise and
present data for business decision-making.
P7S_UW P7S_UW_INŻ
K2_IZ_U03 The graduate is able, using IT tools, to analyse the requirements of
available technologies and plan the use of IT solutions to support
business.
P7S_UW P7S_UW_INŻ
K2_IZ_U04 The graduate is able, when participating in business decision-making
processes, to plan and carry out experiments and, by means of
measurements and computer simulations, to interpret the results
obtained and draw conclusions.
P7S_UW P7S_UW_INŻ
K2_IZ_U05 The graduate is able to use analytical, simulation and experimental
methods in the identification and formulation of specifications of
engineering tasks and their solution.
P7S_UW P7S_UW_INŻ
K2_IZ_U06 The graduate is able to critically analyse the way in which existing
management IT tools function and evaluate these solutions and –
according to a given specification – design and implement typical
management IT tools, using appropriate methods, techniques,
technologies and tools.
P7S_UW P7S_UW_INŻ
K2_IZ_U07 The graduate is able to use their knowledge to select the sources and
information necessary to build complex models of decision-making
processes and to analyse this information critically and synthetically.
P7S_UW P7S_UW_INŻ
K2_IZ_U08 The graduate is able to use their knowledge to formulate and test
research hypotheses verifying the usefulness of methods and models
to support decision-making processes in the field of management.
P7S_UW P7S_UW_INŻ
K2_IZ_U09 The graduate is able to use their knowledge of professional IT
packages for statistical modelling and analysis to solve decisionmaking problems in the field of management.
P7S_UW P7S_UW_INŻ
Learning outcomes 9 / 87
Code Description of the directional learning outcome
Characteristics for
qualifications at
level 6 or 7 of the
Polish
Qualifications
Framework
Characteristics for
qualifications at
level 6 or 7 of the
Polish
Qualifications
Framework,
enabling the
acquisition of
engineering
competences
K2_IZ_U10 The graduate is able to use a foreign language at the CEFR level B2+
and specialist terminology.
P7S_UK
K2_IZ_U11 The graduate can analyse the causes and dynamics of phenomena in
the organisation’s environment under conditions of the market
economy and applicable economic and legal regulations.
P7S_UW, P7S_UK
K2_IZ_U12 The graduate is able to analyse and evaluate objectives, features,
elements, processes, functional areas in an enterprise, as well as
internal and inter-organisational relationships, applying concepts and
theoretical approaches from the social sciences, in particular the
discipline of management and quality studies.
P7S_UW, P7S_UK
K2_IZ_U13 The graduate is able, using adequate methods and tools, to design
systems and processes in logistics, corporate strategy, business
architecture, communication management and in projects. The
graduate is able to make a preliminary economic assessment of
proposed solutions.
P7S_UW, P7S_UK P7S_UW_INŻ
K2_IZ_U14 The graduate is able to formulate innovative alternative solutions to
managerial and content-related problems in the enterprise. The
graduate is able to substantiate, select and verify them according to
the established priorities. The graduate is able to plan actions aimed
at solving problems.
P7S_UW, P7S_UK P7S_UW_INŻ
K2_IZ_U15 The graduate is able to identify risk factors and assess their impact on
the course and results of the process and propose preventive actions.
P7S_UW, P7S_UK P7S_UW_INŻ
K2_IZ_U16 The graduate is able to plan a course of measurement and evaluation
of parameters of selected physical systems, also taking into account
the human factor.
P7S_UW P7S_UW_INŻ
K2_IZ_U17 The graduate is able to describe selected issues encountered in
everyday and professional life using mathematical and physical
formalisms and draw conclusions.
P7S_UW P7S_UW_INŻ
K2_IZ_U18 The graduate is able to solve problems in communicating with diverse
audiences in team-based forms of work organisation. The graduate is
able to conduct a debate.
P7S_UK
K2_IZ_U19 The graduate is able to identify behavioural factors and methods
influencing team leadership, decision-making and assuming
leadership roles in an organisation. The graduate is able to plan and
implement their own lifelong learning and guide others in doing so.
P7S_UO, P7S_UU
K2_IZ_U20 The graduate is able to use their knowledge to analyse economic
phenomena and solve economic problems as well as adapt,
substantiate and apply relevant norms and standards (economic,
legal, social, humanistic) in specific actions in an organisation.
P7S_UW
K2_IZ_U21 The graduate is able to apply their knowledge to identify the potential
effects of introduced economic and legal regulations on enterprises.
P7S_UW
K2_IZ_U22 The graduate has developed research skills: formulates hypotheses
and research problems, selects appropriate methods, techniques and
research tools, develops, presents and interprets research results,
draws conclusions, indicates directions for further research in
management and quality studies, information and communication
technology.
P7S_UW, P7S_UU P7S_UW_INŻ
Learning outcomes 10 / 87
Code Description of the directional learning outcome
Characteristics for
qualifications at
level 6 or 7 of the
Polish
Qualifications
Framework
Characteristics for
qualifications at
level 6 or 7 of the
Polish
Qualifications
Framework,
enabling the
acquisition of
engineering
competences
K2_IZ_U23 The graduate is able to identify – at an advanced level – complex and
untypical managerial and content-related problems in projects
implemented in the form of a project.
P7S_UW, P7S_UK P7S_UW_INŻ
Social competence
K2_IZ_K01 The graduate is ready to take action to develop the professional
accomplishments, uphold the ethos of the profession, and observe
professional ethics.
P7S_KR
K2_IZ_K02 The graduate is able to interact and work in group and team forms of
work organisation (taking various roles in them).
P7S_KO, P7S_KR
K2_IZ_K03 The graduate is ready to flexibly seek and select methods and tools to
solve problems arising in the workplace.
P7S_KK
K2_IZ_K04 The graduate is ready to lead and take responsibility for a group,
organise and direct their own and others’ work, taking into account
changing individual, team and organisational needs.
P7S_KO, P7S_KR
K2_IZ_K05 The graduate is ready to critically evaluate and solve problems
(recognising the importance of knowledge and expert opinion)
concerning decision-making and leadership in a group and
organisation, taking into account the fulfilment of social obligations,
initiating actions for the public interest and the social environment,
and thinking and acting in an entrepreneurial manner.
P7S_KK, P7S_KO
K2_IZ_K06 The graduate is aware of the need for an independent, critical
assessment of the scope and level of their professional knowledge
and skills, both in the field of management and quality studies,
information and communication technology, as well as in the
interdisciplinary dimension. The graduate is prepared to
independently search for areas of knowledge to supplement and skills
to improve.
P7S_KK, P7S_KO,
P7S_KR
K2_IZ_K07 The graduate is prepared to behave in a professional and ethical
manner. The graduate recognises and formulates ethical dilemmas
related to their own and others’ work. They seek appropriate solutions
and opportunities to correct inadequacies in their attitudes and
behaviours in the workplace and in life.
P7S_KK, P7S_KO,
P7S_KR
Language outcomes
SJO_S2_U01 Be able to use a foreign language at B2+ ESCJ level and specialised
terminology
P


Identiﬁes basic methods useful for business intelligenceapplications.

Identiﬁes computing environments (MATLAB, Python).

Uses selected computational environments to implement basic BItasks.

Describes selected BI concepts using mathematical formalism anddraws conclusions.

Is aware of the need for independent, critical assessment of thescope and level of knowledge related to descriptive, predictive andprescriptive analytics. Is prepared to independently search forknowledge in this area.

Describes multidisciplinary approach to innovation as a powerfulway to incorporate the perspectives of many kinds of people.

Knows to approach innovation challenges from a human-centeredperspective.

Knows implementation of each step of design thinking process andideation techniques, to achieve innovative results.

Knows the Sustainable Development Goals and all targets.

Able to deﬁne and re-deﬁne innovation challenges by asking theright questions, and not necessarily focusing on the right answersbut applying lateral and divergent thinking.

Able to apply design thinking in wide range of context, frompersonal to global.

Able to investigate about design problems and opportunities.

Able to visually and articulacy explain design and prototyping.

Is oriented to problem identiﬁcation and creative problem solving.

Is open to eﬀectively collaborate with diﬀerent people in fast-paced, dynamic, cross-disciplinary team settings.

Is open to gain a greater acceptance towards dealing withambiguity and uncertainty in their professional and personal lives.

Shows competence to approach many diﬀerent problems andchallenges with an open, creative, empathetic, and prototype-driven mind set.

Shows increased conﬁdence in creative abilities.

Classiﬁes and describes models and methods, especially simulationones, used to solve decision-making problems in management.

Describes the interactions occurring in selected complex physicalsystems and their inﬂuence on the dynamics of the system, anddistinguishes between diﬀerent models of describing theseinteractions.

Illustrates and explains phenomena resulting from interactions incomplex systems; identiﬁes and indicates examples of practicalapplications of the analysis of these interactions.

Plans and organizes the course of computer simulations andanalysis of parameters of selected physical systems, selectingappropriate numerical methods.

Analyzes and interprets the results of computer simulations,assesses the accuracy and reliability of the results, and veriﬁes thecorrectness of the obtained results, taking into account possibleerrors resulting from modeling and user interaction with thesoftware.

Formulates and describes physical phenomena occurring inselected complex systems encountered in everyday andprofessional life, using mathematical and physical formalism ina computer environment.

Analyzes data obtained from computer simulations of selectedphysical phenomena, interprets the results based on mathematical-physical formalism, and draws conclusions regarding the dynamicsand behavior of the system.

Complies with the principles of professional ethics when working ina computer laboratory, ensures the reliability of simulationanalyses performed and demonstrates responsibility for thecorrectness of the results and their interpretation.

Identiﬁes ethical dilemmas related to the use of numerical toolsand analysis of results in the physics of complex systems, takes upthe challenges related to a critical approach to simulation resultsand declares readiness to correct irregularities in his/her work.

Deﬁnes the essentials of simulation and characterizes themethodologies of selected simulation methods to support decision-making in a changing or uncertain environment.

Selects methods and simulation tools for identifying and modelingcomplex management decision-making processes.

Builds simulation models in accordance with learnedmethodologies; plans and conducts computer simulationexperiments; uses simulation models in solving complexmanagement decision-making problems; draws conclusions basedon simulations performed.

Acts in accordance with ethical principles; interacts and works ingroups and teams.

Characterizes and describes simulation methods used for modelingand decision support in organizations. Explain assumptions anddesign principles of simulation models.

Identiﬁes and utilizes simulation modeling software.

Analyzes example simulation models.Plans and implementsa model for a problem in the ﬁeld of management.

Plans and executes an experiment using simulation models.

Supports others while working on the project. Identiﬁes issues inthe project and is open to discussion.

Identiﬁes ways to use the Matlab environment to prepare dataused to make business decisions.

Identiﬁes ways to use the Matlab environment to analyze andvisualize market data.

Explains descriptive statistics and econometric modeling, coveringtopics related to analysis of market data, estimation andveriﬁcation of regression models, and hypothesis testing.

Using the Matlab environment, visualizes market data, describestheir statistical properties and estimates parameters of regressionmodels for the purpose of supporting enterprise decisions.

Selects an econometric model and its estimation method.Formulates research hypotheses and selects an appropriatestatistical test.

Is prepared to behave in a professional and ethical manner whenpreparing reports and presenting the obtained results.

Identiﬁes the place of economics among other scientiﬁc disciplines.Discribes basic macroeconomic theories.

Explains the relationships between economic processes in thecontext of economic growth and the international economy.Characterizes the basic tools that enable inﬂuencing the marketand iassesses the consequences of introduced regulations.

Applies theoretical knowledge to the analysis of macroeconomicproblems.

Identiﬁes and analyses factors inﬂuencing the economy andevaluates introduced regulations.

Presents and justiﬁes the opinion on the operation of the market ona macroeconomic scale.

Explains the impact of global conditions on the competitiveness oforganizations.

Explains the modern concepts of organizational management.

Characterizes the complexity and complexity of substantive andmanagement problems in the organization.

Recognizes the interdependent elements aﬀecting entrepreneurialprocesses.

Analyzes the causes and dynamics of events and phenomena inthe organization as a whole, in the context of their internal andexternal conditions. Identiﬁes, analyzes and evaluates complexmanagement and substantive problems in the organization.

Develops solutions to complex management and substantiveproblems in the organization. Justiﬁes, selects and veriﬁes solutionsaccording to established priorities, in the context of internal andexternal conditions.

Designs complex changes in the organization.

Is open to critical and ethical analysis of problems arising in theworkplace. Anticipates the consequences of decisions.

Semonstrates readiness for group exploration and elestic selectionof methods and tools for solving problems that arise in theworkplace.

Student has knowledge, skills and competences consistent with therequirements speciﬁed for the minimum B2 level according to theCommon European Framework of Reference for Languages; knows,understands and uses linguistic means (grammatical, lexical andstylistic) from academic, specialist and technical languages ​​used inthe ﬁeld of study and in the academic and professionalenvironment; communicates in an intercultural and professionalenvironment; understands and has the ability to analyze foreign-language specialist texts; improves their skills in the area of ​specialized and academic languages.SJO_S2_U01Program content ensuring learning outcomesB2 plus English, French, Spanish, GermanC1 plus English languageGeneral educational content Syllabuses37 / 87Formation and deepening of communicative competence in academic and professional settings.Interaction appropriate to the appropriate level of linguistic competence, such as the student's own proﬁle for academic andprofessional purposes. Deepening creative, receptive and interactive competence in a team.Language in communication in specialized and professional ﬁelds in the modern world. Verbal and non-verbalcommunication - functioning freely in an intercultural environment, conducting discourse, polemics, analysis of specializedtexts.Calculation of ECTS pointsActivity formActivity hoursClasses30Preparaton for classes30Student workloadHours60 Syllabuses38 / 87AI in ManagementEducational subject description sheetBasic informationField of studyBusiness EngineeringSpeciality-Organizational unitFaculty of ManagementStudy levelsecond degree 3 semestersStudy formfull-time studiesEducation proﬁlegeneral academic proﬁleEducation cycle2025/2026Subject codeW8NIZZ/000S.31PK.05989.25Lecture languagesEnglishMandatorinessObligatoryBlockMajor-speciﬁc subjectsSemesterSemester 1Activities, hours, ECTS and examination• Project: 15 h, 1 ECTS, Graded creditSubject's learning outcomesSubject's outcomeContentLearning outcomeIn terms of knowledgePEU_W01Characterizes the applications of artiﬁcial intelligence inmanagement, identiﬁes methods for integrating artiﬁcialintelligence tools into organizational processes, and analyzes theirimpact on decision-making, process optimization, and market trendforecasting.

Analyzes and develops the application of artiﬁcial intelligence toolsin management, interpreting data from various sources (includingforeign-language materials) and justifying the selection of solutionsthat support managerial decision-making and trend forecasting.

Veriﬁes and tests advanced artiﬁcial intelligence tools used inmanagement, assesses their eﬀectiveness, and identiﬁesopportunities for process optimization in organizations. Plans theimplementation of artiﬁcial intelligence in various organizationaldepartments, considering its impact on data analysis and decision-making.

Initiates and co-develops AI-driven changes in management,demonstrating an entrepreneurial mindset and activelyparticipating in the planning and implementation of innovations.Respects the ethical aspects of artiﬁcial intelligence use, ensuringtransparency and responsibility in data management, processcontrol, and the broader impact of AI on organizations and society.

Identiﬁes advanced forecasting methods. Selects linear andnonlinear forecasting techniques to support decisions in a changingor uncertain environment.

Selects the appropriate forecasting method and createsa forecasting model. Assesses the quality of forecasts. Usesforecasting techniques to solve complex decision-making problemsin management.

Is aware of the need for independent, critical assessment of thescope and level of knowledge in the ﬁeld of predictive analytics. Isprepared to independently search for knowledge in this area.

Identiﬁes methods and techniques of modern analytics useful inmanagement decision-making processes.

Characterizes computer-based decision support tools and datavisualization and reporting systems.

Selects data mining techniques and applies them to data analysis.

Selects and implements selected information technologies tovisualize data and prepare data reports.

Cooperates and works in a group, appropriately dividing the tasksto be performed among individual group members.

Independently develops knowledge and skills, demonstratesreadiness to identify, analyze and solve problems in theidentiﬁcation and analysis of decision-making problems using dataexploration, visualization and reporting.

Characterizes methods of acquiring and analyzing data fromwebsites.

Identiﬁes and selects R language procedures for processing strings.

Designs a procedure for acquiring data from websites.

Selects and applies methods for analyzing data from websitesusing the R language.

Presents in his oral or written statements an understanding of theessence of ethics in business.

Selects arguments, illustrates theses using multimedia tools,presents results of own research in the area of businessintelligence.

Argues, demonstrates research ﬁndings, evaluates talks of otherstudents, prepares 3-minute presentations, discusses businessintelligence issues.

Identiﬁes problems, defends his/her beliefs and expressesjudgements in the context of business intelligence.

Respects and supports others.

Describes digital marketing and social media, its associatedtechnologies, its management, and the ecosystem in which it isapplied and managed.

Recognizes the tools and techniques which are suﬃcient to allowcomprehensive investigation into relevant digital marketing andsocial media related issues.

Creates content and implements digital marketing campaign andanalytics.

Eﬀectively uses digital and social media for business marketing.

Adapts and demonstrates originality, insight, critical and reﬂectiveskills so as to make informed decisions in a dynamic onlineenvironment.

Communicates eﬀectively both orally and in writing, using a rangeof media.

Is capable of collaboratively developing and executing a digitalmarketing campaign, demonstrating eﬀective teamwork byassuming diverse roles.

Critically evaluates the ethical implications of digital marketingpractices, including data privacy, targeted advertising, and the useof Generative AI, and proposes solutions to mitigate potentialharms while adhering to professional standards of conduct.

Describes multidisciplinary approach to innovation as a powerfulway to incorporate the perspectives of many kinds of people.

Characterizes to approach innovation challenges from a human-centered perspective.

Explains the implementation of each step of the design thinkingprocess and ideation techniques, to achieve innovative results.

Identiﬁes the Sustainable Development Goals and all targets.

Deﬁnes and re-deﬁnes innovation challenges by asking the rightquestions and not necessarily focusing on the right answers butapplies lateral and divergent thinking.

Uses design thinking in a wide range of contexts, from personal toglobal.

Investigates about design problems and opportunities.

Visually and articulacy explains design and prototyping.

Is oriented to problem identiﬁcation and creative problem solving.

Eﬀectively collaborates with diﬀerent people in fast-paced,dynamic, cross-disciplinary team settings.

Is able to have greater acceptance towards dealing with ambiguityand uncertainty in professional and personal life.

Approaches many diﬀerent problems and challenges with an open,creative, empathetic, and prototype-driven mind set.

Demonstrates increased conﬁdence in creative abilities.

Describes various decision-making models, such as game-theorymodels and robust/stochastic optimization.

Identiﬁes the risks and uncertainties that arise in decision-makingproblems.

Constructs an appropriate mathematical model for practicaldecision-making problems.

Applies mathematical modeling languages ​​to solve practicaldecision-making problems and interprets the obtained solution.

Solves practical decision-making problems in organizations and isable to present the obtained solution.

Explains project planning and control methods.

Lists the problems and challenges encountered in projectmanagement related to the human and social aspects.

Uses Microsoft Project to plan and control projects.

Creates a project proposal for a speciﬁc call.

Respects the principles of sustainable management in projectmanagement.

Is capable of working in a team on a grant proposal.

Characterizes social and cultural mechanisms of decision-making inorganizations, identiﬁes key factors inﬂuencing leadership, deﬁnestheir signiﬁcance in the context of cultural diversity, explains theirimpact on organizational dynamics, and illustrates examples oftheir application in a global business environment.

Characterizes cultural, ethical, and humanistic norms andstandards inﬂuencing the functioning of the economy andorganizations.

Characterizes the processes of building and functioning teamswithin organizations, identiﬁes and distinguishes factors inﬂuencingtheir eﬀectiveness.

Evaluates the eﬀectiveness of various leadership strategies,demonstrates the ability to plan and implement lifelong learningprocesses, and adapts these strategies to individual needs.

Analyzes economic phenomena and identiﬁes economic problemsby examining their causes and eﬀects within the context of diverseorganizational cultures.

Accepts and values the importance of expert knowledge andopinions in decision-making and leadership within groups andorganizations, considering cultural diversity.

Takes responsibility for adhering to ethical principles, respectscultural and social diﬀerences, and takes on challenges to improvepersonal behaviors and attitudes in the workplace and life.

Is able to identify a decision-making problem in the ﬁeld ofmanagement and plan its resolution and document it in the form ofa thesis.

Is able to conduct literature research and formulate researchhypotheses, select appropriate methods, techniques and researchtools.

Is able to present hypotheses, research and analysis approaches,as well as substantively justify in discussion ideas and drawconclusions, and critically evaluate the planned actions andsolutions of others.

Demonstrates care for the intellectual property of others andidentiﬁes and takes into account the legal and ethical aspects ofthe research and activities intended to be undertaken in the thesis.

Accepts criticism of his knowledge level during group discussionsand is oriented toward self-improvement in his knowledge andskills.

Characterizes and knows the methods and concepts of costaccounting and management accounting tools.

Distinguishes the methods of constructing a budget and describesthe individual ﬁnancial report documents.

Prepares cost calculations and analyses costs, plans, forecasts andoptimises costs.

Prepares the company's budget and demonstrates the eﬀects ofdecisions made in the ﬁnancial reports.

Is sensitive to the importance of managerial accounting in businesspractice and, above all, its role in providing the organization'smanagement with the economic information necessary to securethe organization's management processes, including theperformance of its basic functions.

It is capable of collecting, processing and presenting ﬁnancial andnon-ﬁnancial information about the project, the company and itsenvironment, the purpose of which is to support managers inmaking operational and strategic decisions.

Identiﬁes mathematical models to support decision making inmanagement.

Characterizes the creation of composite indicators under diﬀerentpreference structures.

Develops decision making models.

Selects and uses IT tools to solve decision-making problems in theﬁeld of management.

Is able to expand knowledge and skills as well as works in groupsto formulate and evaluate decision making models.

Identiﬁes types and features of cloud technologies and services.

Explains the applications of cloud services in management,supporting the operations of organizations and the engineer-manager job.

Acquires the information necessary to recognize cutting-edge cloudtechnologies and services, compares oﬀerings in the vendormarket and matches them to the organization's needs and plansimplementation.

Compares the features, advantages, disadvantages andapplications of existing cloud technologies and can criticallyevaluate them.

Selects and can implement selected cloud solutions suitable foridentiﬁed needs.

Responsibly completes tasks at home and in the lab, independentlyand as part of a team. Is prepared to present the results and tohelp other students in collaboration.

Characterizes the methods of scientiﬁc research.

Identiﬁes and selects scientiﬁc databases that should be the basisfor for conducting literature analysis.

Presents and characterizes the structure of a scientiﬁc article andthe path of its publication.

Selects and analyzes literature sources in a structured manner.

Applies research skills, such as formulating and testing ofhypotheses related to identiﬁed simple research problems.

Selects appropriate methods, techniques and research tools.

Identiﬁes research problems and takes into account the need fortheir structured solution.

Proceeds in accordance with the ethics of scientiﬁc research duringindependent critical analysis of literature and research results.

Integrates knowledge from diﬀerent areas of management(strategy, ﬁnance, human resources, marketing), taking intoaccount current development trends and challenges of the modernbusiness world, in order to develop solutions to real organizationalchallenges; identiﬁes and deﬁnes research problems speciﬁc tothese areas.

Explains and justiﬁes the use of methods of data analysis,qualitative and quantitative research, and modern technologies inthe research process to diagnose and improve operations inspeciﬁc functional areas of the organization.

Selects appropriate sources and conducts in-depth literaturestudies; critically and synthetically analyzes the informationobtained.

Formulates research problems, tests hypotheses, selects adequatemethods, techniques and research tools, develops, presents andinterprets research results, draws conclusions, indicates directionsfor further research.

Is capable of independently identifying and ﬁlling knowledge gapsand developing key skills in response to changing professionalrequirements; shows initiative in selecting methods and tools tosolve problems encountered in professional work, taking intoaccount the speciﬁcs the speciﬁcs and needs of the organizationsstudied.

Student has knowledge, skills and competences consistent with therequirements speciﬁed for the appropriate language level; knows,understands and uses linguistic means (grammatical, lexical andstylistic) deﬁned at a certain level from everyday life with selectedelements of academic, specialist and technical language used inthe ﬁeld of study and in the academic and professionalenvironment; communicates in a family, social and interculturalenvironment, practicing communication skills; appreciates theneed to improve their skills in eﬀective communication, developscompetences in the area of ​​communication language, basics ofspecialist and academic languageSJO_S2_U01 Syllabuses71 / 87Program content ensuring learning outcomesA1; A2; B1 French, Spanish, Japanese, German, Polish as a foreign language, RussianGeneral educational contentFormation and deepening of communicative competence in a family, social and intercultural environment and for a speciﬁclevel for academic and professional needs.Interaction appropriate to the appropriate level of language competence, e.g., the student's own proﬁle and interests;presenting oneself, one's interests and ideas in environmental, academic and professional contexts. Developing creative,receptive and interactive competence in a group.Language in communication in the modern world. Verbal and non-verbal communication - sensitivity to cultural diﬀerences,starting a conversation, joining in a discussion, moving on to the next points, summarizing statements, using characteristicphrases and expressions for a certain language level; taking part in various forms of interaction.Calculation of ECTS pointsActivity formActivity hoursClasses60Preparaton for classes30Student workloadHours90 Syllabuses72 / 87Business Ethics and Intellectual PropertyEducational subject description sheetBasic informationField of studyBusiness EngineeringSpeciality-Organizational unitFaculty of ManagementStudy levelsecond degree 3 semestersStudy formfull-time studiesEducation proﬁlegeneral academic proﬁleEducation cycle2025/2026Subject codeW8NIZZ/000S.34HS.04480.25Lecture languagesEnglishMandatorinessObligatoryBlockSubjects from the ﬁelds of humanities or social sciencesSemesterSemester 3Activities, hours, ECTS and examination• Seminar: 30 h, 2 ECTS, Graded creditSubject's learning outcomesSubject's outcomeContentLearning outcomeIn terms of knowledgePEU_W01Characterizes, explains and interprets moral and ethical norms andstandards speciﬁc to the functional areas of organizations relatedto the specialty studied.

Idnentiﬁes the basic ethical dilemmas of the modern world.

Uses specialized normative systems in the area of ​​ethics. Justiﬁesand applies appropriate moral and ethical norms and standards inrelation to the organization's activities.

Acts in accordance with ethical principles. Identiﬁes ethicalproblems in the business environment.

Identiﬁes methods for analyzing the macro and micro environmentand explains the impact of the environment on businessoperations.

Describes sources of ﬁnancing for business ventures and lists theprinciples of creating ﬁnancial forecasts.

Describes the legal procedures related to establishing and runninga business.

Presents the structure and content of a business plan and explainsits importance in the process of establishing and developinga business.

Analyzes and evaluates the impact of the macro- andmicroeconomic environment on business operations.

Develops a business plan that includes environmental analysis,a marketing strategy, and a ﬁnancial forecast.

Analyzes the ﬁnancial needs of the enterprise and plans sources ofﬁnancing for the venture.

Applies knowledge of legal regulations and provisions to establisha business.

Is open to teamwork during the preparation and presentation ofa business plan.

Acts in accordance with professional ethics in the context ofbusiness planning.

Identiﬁes inter-organizational relations and interactions of anorganization with the environment in the context of national,international and intercultural conditions. Explains and illustratesthe impact of the environment on the activities of the organization.

Describes organization and functioning of the company in the ﬁeldof strategic management, logistics, marketing, ﬁnance, businessarchitecture.

Explains the norms and standards (economic, legal, organizationaland ethical) that determine the context of the functioning of theeconomy and organization.

Is able to analyze and evaluate the objectives, features, elements,processes, functional areas in the enterprise as well as internal andinter-organizational relations, using concepts and theoreticalapproaches in the ﬁeld of social sciences, in particular thediscipline of management and quality science.

Is able to formulate innovative alternative solutions tomanagement and substantive problems in the enterprise. He canjustify, make a choice and verify them in accordance with theestablished priorities. Can plan actions to solve them.

Is aware of the need for an independent, critical assessment of thescope and level of their knowledge of establishing and runninga business Is prepared to independently search for areas ofknowledge to supplement and skills to improve.

Identiﬁes psychological factors that are important in developing theability of organizational members to cooperate with the externalenvironment.

Characterizes the norms and standards of organizationalperformance in various economic conditions. Explains theindividual and organizational factors that support compliance withthese norms.

Explains the relevance of short- and long-term plans in anorganization in the context of managing employee potential.

Describes the internal dynamics of enterprise functioning on thebasis of interpersonal interactions. Explains the individualcharacteristics that predispose people to develop and conductindividual entrepreneurship.

Identiﬁes factors from the organization's environment that aﬀectemployee job motivation, satisfaction and commitment.

Identiﬁes psychological factors contributing to eﬀectivemanagement of people in project tasks and eﬀective organizationalleadership.

Combines various personnel management tools to develop a long-term action plan.

Analyzes factors aﬀecting the quality of labor relations based onsocial science models.

Adapts tools for resolving employee conﬂicts and managementproblems to motivate and increase job satisfaction.

Eﬀectively and empathetically communicates with others,respecting diﬀerent perspectives and worldviews.

He eﬀectively presents his own views and can argue in theirdefense. Is prepared to persuade and negotiate to achievecommon goals.

Deﬁnes and explains the basic concepts and theoreticalframeworks related to CSR, including its signiﬁcance in national,international, and intercultural contexts.

Describes and compares various approaches to implementing CSRin the areas of the marketplace, workplace, local communities, andenvironmental protection, explaining how CSR strategies cansupport entrepreneurship by creating social and economic value.

Identiﬁes and justiﬁes the importance of norms, standards, andethical aspects of CSR in the context of contemporary societalchallenges.

Analyzes the causes and dynamics of changes in the organization'senvironment in relation to CSR strategies and their impact oninternal and external stakeholders.

Evaluates the current CSR portfolio for a selected company,designs a CSR strategy proposing innovative solutions aligned withthe organization's established priorities, using tools such as theShared Value Virtuous Cycle, Theory of Change, and OutcomesMap.

Interprets the impact of legal and economic regulations on thedevelopment and implementation of CSR strategies withina company.

Collaborates with a project team, taking on various roles in theprocess of developing and presenting CSR strategies.

Demonstrates initiative in identifying social and environmentalissues related to the company's activities, proposing elements forthe CSR portfolio in alignment with ethical principles.

Identiﬁes and explains decision-making processes related totechnology governance

Identiﬁes regulatory and other non-technical standards of thetechnology assessment process. Characterizes them in the contextof the dilemmas of modern civilization.

Is able to use knowledge of regulations regarding technologyassessment, technology governance and principles of professionalethics to analyze socio-economic phenomena and to solveproblems at the organizational level.

Accepts and appreciates the need to solve social andorganizational problems in the deliberative process, recognizingthe knowledge and opinions of experts. Is oriented towards actingin the public interest.

Appreciates the importance of the principles of professional ethicsand is ready to seek appropriate solutions in the event ofa disagreement, conﬂict or an ethical dilemma.

Identiﬁes, recognises, explains and describes the ethical,humanistic and social conditions of contemporary economic,political and civic organisations in the context of new technologies.

Identiﬁes and characterises the key ethical dilemmas ofcontemporary civilisation, especially in the context of newtechnologies.

Analyses and ethically evaluates possible dilemmas related to newtechnologies, their management and implementation. Develops,argues and prepares possible solutions.

Demonstrates the ethical consequences associated with newtechnologies, their management and implementation, andconducts a discussion on these consequences.

Is able to initiate changes in the organisation and participates intheir planning and implementation. Is capable of anticipating themultidirectional eﬀects of the changes implemented. Is able tothink and act in an entrepreneurial manner and is sensitive to andinitiates action for the public interest.

Is able to courageously communicate and defend his/her ownviews. Demonstrates initiative to persuade and negotiate for thesake of achieving goals accorting to the principles of ethics.

Classiﬁes leadership theories and models in terms of classical andmodern approaches to analyzing and measuring leadership

Has the ability to take the role of a team leader, deal with conﬂicts,time pressure and other responsibility systems

Communicates eﬀectively and empathetically with others whilerespecting diﬀerent perspectives